docs: android NLU explanation (#51)
spokestack/spokestack-website: content/docs/Android/nlu.md

---

> title: NLU on Android

Reviewer: I think this doc should be split up into a new `concepts/nlu.md` doc, and the `Usage` section transferred into `Android/getting-started.md`.

Reviewer: You could further split `Usage` by putting `### 2) Callback` into the cookbook.

Reviewer: Everything outside `Usage` is applicable to iOS too, so it shouldn't be siloed as Android-only.

Author: That's mostly correct, but the types are going to be different in Swift.

Reviewer: Wow, github lost this comment thread in my review, and I rewrote it in different places below :( sorry for the duplication.

The mobile libraries use Wordpiece tokenization, a variant of [Byte pair encoding](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Byte_pair_encoding) originally described in [this paper](https://static.googleusercontent.com/media/research.google.com/ja//pubs/archive/37842.pdf), to divide user utterances into tokens. The wordpiece vocabulary is pretrained and distributed along with the model; the tokens produced by the tokenizer are encoded into a sequence of integer IDs according to this vocabulary.

The sequence of integers representing the user utterance is then padded with a special separator token and trailing 0s to bring the sequence to a predetermined length. That padded sequence is the model's input (shaped `[1, sequence_length]`), and the output is two tensors representing posterior probabilities for intent classification and tag classification for each token (`[1, num_intents]` and `[1, num_tags, sequence_length]`, respectively).

> ## Usage

Reviewer: This document should be broken up at this point, with the `Usage` section and  `### 1) Blocking call` moving to `Android/getting-started.md`.

Author: The getting started guide already has this snippet; the division is important enough to explain at length and not bury in a recipe.

### 1) Blocking call

An `AsyncResult` can be used in a synchronous context by calling its `get()` method, which blocks until the result is available. This can be useful if you're already working on a background thread and don't wish to complicate things further to get the classifier's answer. We'll simulate that situation below via Kotlin's [coroutine context](https://kotlin.github.io/kotlinx.coroutines/kotlinx-coroutines-core/kotlinx.coroutines/with-context.html).

```kotlin
GlobalScope.launch(Dispatchers.Default) {
    // other background tasks

    nlu?.let {
        val nluResult = it.classify(utterance).get()

        // go back to the main context to update the UI
        withContext(Dispatchers.Main) {
            // nluResult.intent contains the user's intent
            // nluResult.slots contains slots detected in the utterance
        }
    }
}
```

> ### 2) Callback

Reviewer: This section should be moved to the Android cookbook (since it covers an alternative to what would be in Getting Started).

Where `AsyncResult` differs from a vanilla `Future` is in its ability to notify a registered callback when the result is available. Note that the callback is invoked from the NLU's background thread, so any updates to the UI will need to be wrapped appropriately. The example below creates an anonymous class/object expression to represent the callback; it might be cleaner to have a separate class for this depending on your use case.

```kotlin
val asyncResult = nlu?.classify(utterance)
asyncResult?.registerCallback(object : Callback<NLUResult> {
    override fun call(nluResult: NLUResult?) {
        runOnUiThread {
            // update UI with nluResult
        }
    }

    override fun onError(err: Throwable?) {
        // handle error
    }
})
```

> ## Interpreting the results

Reviewer: This and the following sections should be combined with the earlier `The basics` section into a new document at `Concepts/nlu.md`

#### Digits

A digits slot represents a string of integers. Note that this is different from an integer slot, whic is described below. The digits type is meant to capture a string of digits spoken in order, as in a phone number or PIN.

When capturing numbers spoken aloud, there is some inherent ambiguity — for example, does "eight hundred fifty-six" mean "800 56" or "856"? The digits slot always renders powers of 10 ("hundred" and "thousand", in the case of the digits slot; larger numbers are not supported) with the trailing zeroes. This is due to the type's intention of capturing information like phone numbers, where users are likely to say things such as "one eight hundred five five five fifty-five fifty-five". Note that this does not apply to the first power of 10: "fifty-five" renders as "55".

Model metadata can specify the number of digits expected for a given slot with a `count` field; if this field is absent, any number of digits is accepted. If it is present, and the number of digits recognized does not match, an error is returned.

#### Entity

> An entity slot represents a value with a specific meaning in the current domain. No transformation is performed on this type; its value is a `String` extracted directly from the ASR result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An entity slot represents a value with a specific meaning in the current domain. No transformation is performed on this type; its value is a `String` extracted directly from the input utterance.
```

#### Integer

> An integer slot, as implied by the name, attempts to parse a spoken numeric value into an `int` value. Spoken values may be ordinal or cardinal ("third" or "three", respectively), and the integer slot interprets powers of 10 in the opposite way that the digits slot does: "eight hundred fifty-six" will be rendered as `856`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An integer slot, as implied by the name, attempts to parse a numeric value into an `int` value. Numeric values may be ordinal or cardinal ("third" or "three", respectively), and the integer slot interprets powers of 10 in the opposite way that the digits slot does: "eight hundred fifty-six" will be rendered as `856`.
```

> Values up to Java's `Integer.MAX_VALUE` are supported, but model metadata specifies the acceptable range of values for the particular slot; values outside that range result in an error.

Reviewer: This note is probably more appropriate for code documentation, not a docs guide.

Author: Another reason this is in the Android section 😛

Reviewer: It's an island of platform specificity in a sea of platform-independent concepts.
